- [Instructor] After your team's develop branch
has collected enough features,
you'll want to release them.
In Gitflow, the release process starts
by creating a new release branch that's branched
off of your develop branch.
We can create this branch within GitHub
by clicking on the branch dropdown,
selecting the develop branch,
and then from there, we'll click
on the branch dropdown again,
and here we'll name our release branch.
I'm going to name it release forward slash 1.0
and then you'll just want to check
that you are branching off of your develop branch.
You can see that there.
If everything's in place, go ahead
and click on the line and the new branch will be created.
So now we have our new release branch,
but we don't want to make any major changes to it
like adding a new feature.
We can make minor changes that fix any bugs discovered
while this release candidate is being tested.
This is one of the strengths of Gitflow.
We can make small changes in the release branch
to prepare the release while the rest of the team
is doing feature work for the next release
in the develop branch.
So let's imagine that we were supposed to add
a small description of the course on the webpage,
but we forgot to do it.
Let's go ahead and we'll fix this issue.
I'm going to navigate back to the course page
and if I scroll down, I can find the description
I was supposed to add to our site.
So let's go ahead and copy that
and then we can navigate back to GitHub
where we can place this description in our index.md file.
So just click on the file
and then come over here to the pencil to edit it.
Now, normally we would do this work on our workstation
in our local repository in another branch, but to save time,
I'm going to work directly within GitHub.
So I'll just go ahead and paste the description
below the video for the course
and then I'll go ahead and commit these changes.
All right, now they're in place.
Now that we've fixed the issues in our release branch,
we're going to ship it to production.
In Gitflow, this is done by merging
our release branch into the main branch.
To do that, we're going to use a pull request.
So I'll click on the pull request tab
and here you'll notice that GitHub has identified
our recent changes to the release branch.
So let's just use this shortcut
to create the pull request.
There you can see the pull request
is set up to merge the release branch into main.
It's exactly what we want.
So let's go ahead, we'll create the pull request,
and then since we're working on our own,
we'll just go ahead and merge it.
After I confirm the merge, we can head over
to the actions to watch as our page is built and deployed.
Okay, it looks like it's built
and the deployment should kick off here shortly.
Everything's ready to go.
Let's check out our website.
Awesome, we've just completed our first release
with Gitflow, but there's one last step.
In Gitflow we also need to merge the changes
from our release branch into the develop branch.
That way they're incorporated into future development work.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We'll use a pull request
so I'll click on that tab and then we can click
on this button to create a new pull request.
From here, I'm going to select our develop branch
and then I'm going to select our release branch.
That way the changes from release are merged into develop.
All right, let's go ahead,
we'll create the pull request,
we'll click on this button then to create it,
and now we can merge the pull request.
We'll confirm that we'd like to perform the merge
and now everything is up-to-date.
So those are the steps you'll need to walk through
to perform a release when using Gitflow.
Just be careful that you don't forget that last step
to merge from release into develop.
Otherwise you might be wondering
where your changes went when you do your next release.